---
title: PR Friday
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2009-11-27T16:13:20+00:00
url: /blog/2009/11/pr-friday-2/
categories:
  - PR Friday
tags:
  - WFAC

---
## &#8220;Does the CIA have you pushing too many pencils?&#8221;

I hope you all gained five pounds yesterday. This may be an abbreviated week for some of you, but it is still PR Friday nonetheless. At the very least you can detail your eating PR&rsquo;s from yesterday.
  

  
Remember, these are the PR&rsquo;s you set this week in lifting, eating, or gaining weight. If you&rsquo;re a more advanced lifter, then you might just highlight your training week since PR&rsquo;s will be less frequent.
  

  
As for me, I clean and jerked 150 twice on Tuesday (PR), squatted 460 for three sets of five on Wednesday, and failed on my last rep of pressing 210 for three sets of five (had never pressed this but will consider it a PR when completing all the sets). I weighed in at 226.5, which is the heaviest I have ever been &#8212; got a few more pounds to gain to get to the upper limit of my weight class. Oh, and yesterday I watched an abnormal amount of Battlestar Galactica.
  

  
&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;-
  

  
I have been coaching a 14 year old kid named Colton for a couple of months. He walked in as a quiet, 122 pound boy who had a decent bench press (he was repping 135). 35 pounds later he is a pretty strong 157 pound pain in the ass who will talk smack to the majority of people in the gym (although probably not up to [Greyskull][1] standards).
  

  
Colton has squatted 235 for three sets of five, pressed 110x5x3, and benches 165x5x3. He will compete at the state meet in January with us, and will be close to hitting the qualifying total for national level competitions in his age and weight class.
  

  
In the following video, he pulls 285 for a set of five. He could probably stand to keep the low back locked in the first few reps, but the last few reps are typical of a heavy set of five. Nice work nonetheless.

 [1]: http://greyskullelite.blogspot.com/
