---
title: Power Cleans
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=3272
categories:
  - Content

---
Lately I&#8217;ve seen some guys attempt a bastardized power clean that doesn&#8217;t accomplish anything. It&#8217;s easy to get angry when you see [something stupid][1], so I&#8217;ll continue explaining why these things are ineffective.
  

  
The most common screw up in the power clean is that the trainee thinks it&#8217;s an arm movement. They heave the bar up with a reverse curl or a goofy upright row to rack it in a press position (if the press is done by an 80-year-old man with bad wrists). If this final 80-year-old man position can be attained, then the trainee adds more weight. As the weight progressively increases, the second most common screw up occurs; the trainee humps the weight forward and quickly spreads the feet at the &#8220;rack position&#8221;. Instead of using the legs to make the bar go up, the legs split out wide and the body drops down to get the bar in position. This accomplishes nothing and looks fucking ridiculous.
  

  
I&#8217;ll often rhetorically ask my girlfriend how some people think what exercise they are doing does any good whatsoever. A solid example is the guy in the gym who rolls his sleeves up when he&#8217;s shrugging over 500 pounds. What will usually happen (aside from the guy wearing Nike Shox) is that he&#8217;ll pick the bar up with his straps, and make an attempt to shrug the weight up. This isn&#8217;t the Bill Starr style power shrug that Brent AKA The Shrug Thug AKA The Dr. of Shruganomics AKA The Trolling Shrug AKA I Like Some Electro, But Still Listen To Trance-like Shit Like DJ Tiesto That Is Just A Constant And Annoying Beat Similar To A Construction Site does; it&#8217;s the standard &#8220;hang onto the bar, and elevate the scapulae with the traps&#8221; shrug. When the guy attempts the shrug, he bends his knees and ankles so that his body dips down. Essentially what results is that the bar stays in the same spot while the guy is moving his body up and down. Yes, the scapulae are moving, but no, the trapezius muscles aren&#8217;t doing the work of moving the bar, because the bar isn&#8217;t moving in relation to the Earth. And that&#8217;s why it&#8217;s stupid: because it doesn&#8217;t accomplish anything. The guy will feel like he&#8217;s doing something because his traps get a little tired from holding the weight in the first place, but an educated person can easily identify the whole &#8220;look how big my dick is &#8212; I can shrug 600 pounds&#8221; facade.
  

  
The same thing happens with the power clean. A dude will throw some weight on and think he&#8217;s doing a hang clean when he&#8217;s actually doing a reverse curl with a foot slide. Instead of lifting weights, he&#8217;s doing a Brent Kim trademarked dance move (and needs to pay Brent 38 cents for each rep performed). The power clean is an exercise that builds POWER, not suave. POWER comes from your hips in the form of hip extension. That&#8217;s how you apply POWER. There is no POWER when you wiggle your body to get a bar near your neck. No NFL player is taking on a block with a subtle junk thrust, nor are they jumping to catch a touchdown pass with their arms in the shape of a praying mantis. To build POWER, it&#8217;s advisable to forcefully extend the hips quickly with an additional load. The very brief summary as to &#8220;why?&#8221; is that more motor units are utilized in a way that can be progressively loaded safely while getting stronger. You can learn more about power cleans, their effectiveness, and how to do them in the books &#8220;Starting Strength&#8221; and &#8220;Practical Programming&#8221; (2nd Editions to both). Until you can get instruction or text to help you, emphasize the jump in a power or hang power clean. This emphasis puts the work on the hip and knee extensors to actually make the bar move upward instead of moving the body downward (this shouldn&#8217;t be confused with doing a full clean &#8212; in a full clean, the powerful hip/knee extension occurs, then the body lowers as the bar travels up)

 [1]: /?p=2971
