---
title: Lifting Music
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2010-03-24T14:07:37+00:00
url: /blog/2010/03/damn-it/
categories:
  - Inspiration
tags:
  - music

---
The server is still turning over. I work on a different computer at night, and for whatever reason when I work on that computer, it represents the database before it was pulled. That means that the post I typed and scheduled to post at midnight never seemed to exist. I&#8217;m not technical enough to explain it, but it&#8217;ll take a few days to finalize, so stay patient.
  
_Edit: Re-typed the post below._
  
&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;-
  

  
No, that doesn&#8217;t say &#8220;uplifting music&#8221;, it says &#8220;lifting music&#8221;. We all know the benefit of listening to music as we train; it can help improve our mood, energize us, and sometimes induce an adrenaline response. At some powerlifting meets (I assume this is dependent on the federation? Somebody chime in here) there is even music allowed while lifting. In comparison, music is not present in weightlifting meets.
  

  
Nevertheless, there are lots of people interested in what you listen to when you train. It might be kinda cool if you explain a little bit about the song(s) that you list. I always liked to squat to things like &#8220;Achilles Last Stand&#8221; or &#8220;When the Levee Breaks&#8221; by Led Zeppelin, as well as &#8220;I&#8217;m A Man&#8221; by Chicago. Let us know what you like.
  

  
And here are some (in)famous videos that depict some music that may or may not be playing during training sessions in a certain group of friends (the first two are pretty old, the last is marvelous).
