---
title: Tidbits
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2010-05-14T04:06:36+00:00
url: /blog/2010/05/tidbits/
categories:
  - PR Friday
  - Videos
  - Women

---
Well my friends, **PR Friday** is upon us once again. Sure, we&#8217;ll have all the same kind of stories where people rip their pants, lift something relatively heavy, or eat plenty of food, but I **want to call out the ladies this weekend and have them post some PR&#8217;s**. Hey, a PR is a PR, and it doesn&#8217;t matter if that weight is great or small, it still matters to me &#8212; I wanna hear about it. So c&#8217;mon ladies, let me hear your stories. Dudes, get your ladies postin&#8217;.
  
&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;-
  


Avi sent me an amusing rugby video that is a wonderful display of why you don&#8217;t want to be 90&#8217;s Small on the pitch. He tells me the larger player is 6&#8217;5&#8243; and 135kg while the smaller player is 5&#8217;11&#8221; and 83kg. Click play to see what happens (sorry about the wide frame, but it&#8217;s HD, yo).
  


<span class="embed-youtube" style="text-align:center; display: block;"><iframe class='youtube-player' type='text/html' width='584' height='329' src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/88zKlovZJKg?version=3&#038;rel=1&#038;fs=1&#038;autohide=2&#038;showsearch=0&#038;showinfo=1&#038;iv_load_policy=1&#038;wmode=transparent' allowfullscreen='true' style='border:0;'></iframe></span>
  
&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;-
  


Brian sent in <a href="http://www.buzzhumor.com/videos/16817/Hooters_Chick_Squats_A_Guy" target="_blank">this video</a> of a Hooters waitress squatting some 90&#8217;s Small guy. Good for the waitress and shame on the not-a-man on her shoulders. What perturbs me more than anything is one of the comments on the video. It reads,

> Wow, that has happened too me a few times. I had an Ex-Girlfriend who could pick me up on her shoulders like a feather&#8230;Just goes too show that Women are not the weaker gender, and us Guys better start getting used too that, or we will be getting picked up and spun around by Women too. 

Uhh&#8230;
  

  
Look, ladies, if you can pick your boyfriend up &#8220;like a feather&#8221;, then you don&#8217;t have a boyfriend, you have a child-friend. It&#8217;s okay to lug him around once in a while, but it shouldn&#8217;t be that easy because he should be an adult male. I can&#8217;t tell you how many times I hear, &#8220;Man, I didn&#8217;t realize how much I enjoyed a guy who weighs over 200 pounds better than a skinny-pain-in-the-ass guy until I tried it out&#8221; (not a direct quote, but true story nonetheless).
  

  
This isn&#8217;t a discussion about women&#8217;s rights, or their roles in society. It is simply a statement that a ravishing woman deserves man, not a skinny little puke (not to be confused with <a href="/?p=484" target="_blank">Johnny Spuke</a>, who is the exact opposite). And fellas, you owe it to your lady to become an Adult Male.
