---
title: 70s BIG FOOTBALL
author: NLascek
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2733
categories:
  - Content

---
_This is the first post in a series of articles about football and all of it&#8217;s &#8220;bigness&#8221;._
  
</br>
  
**All-70s Big Team**
  
</br>
  
I&#8217;d like to take this time to start things off on an early note. As we all are aware, college football has already started and depending on this post, the NFL is about to start. I thought it would be very fitting to introduce you all to my All-70s Big Team. There are certain criteria to make the list. First off, you don&#8217;t have to be the biggest guy or strongest guy at that position. We all know the biggest wide receiver in the NFL is bust-turned-starter [Mike Williams][1] and the biggest quarterback not in the NFL is active codeine user  [Jamarcus Russell][2]. The player in question has to make plays and be a valuable contributor in his game in what we deem as [badassery][3]. They don&#8217;t necessarily have to be the best player at their position because then we can sit around here and debate who that is. It also doesn&#8217;t matter if they are a big fantasy player because we could do the same with that. These are the players that sucked the day&#8217;s dick like they were supposed to, but bit the dick off and spit it back in the face of the man. Now that we know the logistics of the whole thing, let&#8217;s kick get this party started.
  
</br>
  
**Quarterback:Matthew Stafford**
  
</br>
  
Holy crap, did I just put Matthew Stafford on a list!! ZOINKS!!!! Yeah, I did. Don&#8217;t be a bitch about it. Before I continue, I would like to add that I am a diehard Browns fan so this isn&#8217;t exactly the easiest thing that I have done. Last year when his back was against the wall, he beat my Browns in dramatic fashion after getting [clobbered][4] and suffering a shoulder injury. He stayed in the game and threw the winning touchdown to beat Brady Quinn, something that everybody in the NFL seems to do. It seems as though the Lions will get a lot better this year so my pick actually might turn into something gold here. If somebody wanted to make the argument that Mark Sanchez was the better quarterback to come out of that draft, I have some information that will turn your brain into [shit][5]. Coming out of college Stafford had started for three years in the SEC and Sanchez had started for only a season and a half. They had nearly identical stats their rookie years but one of them played on a team that didn&#8217;t win a game the year before. Sanchez has a stacked ass team to carry him while Stafford needs to be on point for the Lions to even think about winning. Look at the preseason stats (preseason does matter by the way).
  
</br>
  
**Running Back: Maurice Jones-Drew**
  
</br>
  
Pocket Hercules makes my list because he is one of the shorter NFL players that actually plays like one of the biggest players in the league. His [hit][6] on Shawne Merriman was pretty impressive. One of his better characteristics is since he is so damn short, he has that low pad level and can just lay into juicing linebackers like Merriman. I think the last person Merriman hit was Tila Tequila. Regardless, Pocket Hercules is a top five fantasy pick this year for good reason. His only downfall seems to be that he plays on the Jaguars. I don&#8217;t know what is happening in Florida right now, but I saw this week that the Buccaneers and the Jaguars might be blacking out their game this weekend if they don&#8217;t sell enough tickets.
  
</br>
  
**Fullback: John Connor**
  
</br>
  
This pick is based solely on the fact that his name is Jon Connor and that he was on &#8220;Hard Knocks&#8221;. In reality, he might suck and never really do anything but he was the reason the team released veteran Tony Richardson and signed him back so he wouldn&#8217;t get his guaranteed roster bonus. Still, apparently he hits anything in sight and regularly gives Rex Ryan boners. He hit that guy on the Panthers pretty [hard][7].
  
</br>
  
**Wide Receivers: Andre Johnson, Steve Smith**
  
</br>
  
One guy is a pretty understandable pick and the other one is fairly small for his position. I&#8217;ll start with Andre. Does anyone remember the time that Andre Johnson grabbed the Arizona defense by the back of the neck and bent them over and just start [ravishing them from behind][8]? I know some of you do, you&#8217;re probably Cardinal fans (oh yeah, by the way, good luck with Derek Anderson). For years I always thought that Andre was wasting his time in Houston on bad teams and also playing with David Carr. Nowadays, they look like a pretty good team and might contend for the wildcard in the AFC. I don&#8217;t think they&#8217;ll beat the Colts but they should be able to take 3/4 from the Titans and Jaguars. I kind of want to see him make it to the playoffs because his badassery (that word again) needs to pay off. The other receiver on this list is little Steve Smith. Go to his second [catch][9]and see him bounce off of London Fletcher. He&#8217;s been making catches, returning punts, making plays, beating up teammates, and breaking his arms for years.
  
</br>
  
**Tight End: Jason Witten**
  
</br>
  
I had to do this because a lot of tight ends don&#8217;t really do the badass stuff. They are bigger, slower, and better as blockers. There are some tight ends that are freaks but they also get sent into the locker room by Mike Singletary (and drafted by me in my fantasy draft). I don&#8217;t really think that Jason Witten fits this mold. Sure he isn&#8217;t really that fast but he catches balls (on his forehead) and is a great blocking tight end. People probably hate him because he plays for the Cowboys but credit needs to be given where credit is due. There was that time he [lost his helmet and took it all the way to the 5 yard line][10]. Madden will tell you what needs to be said.
  
</br>
  
**Offensive Line: Joe Thomas, Steve Hutchinson, Nick Mangold, Leonard Davis, Ryan Clady**
  
</br>
  
I kind of did it all at once there, not because they aren&#8217;t worthy of their own section, but because I think that the best offensive lineman shouldn&#8217;t really have much to say. All they have to do is protect the quarterback and open up holes and in my opinion these dudes do it the best. What if there was some parallel universe of other humans where they came to our planet and wanted to play us in a game of American football for all the natural resources on our planet and on their planet?* The alien versions of humans would not be genetically superior or have any special powers, but they still have the same rules and game as we do. Now think about who you would want on that offensive line. I would select this line because I would think that anybody could look good behind this line. I think everybody on this line is an All-Pro and if they aren&#8217;t then they have been or will be. Look at [this guy][11].
  
</br>
  
**Defensive Line: Jared Allen, [Ndamukong Suh][12], Shaun Rogers, Demarcus Ware**
  
</br>
  
I know Demarcus Ware is a linebacker but I would assume that we would run a base 4-3 defense and bring him in to defensive end and rush the tits out of the quarterback. Jared Allen is like a horse with a mullet. I don&#8217;t really think he has the mullet anymore since he shaved it for love, but regardless, he&#8217;s a horse (I don&#8217;t know if he is hung like one). Shaun Rogers is pretty darn good. He has played for bad teams in his playing career so he isn&#8217;t really in the spotlight like some other players are. He demands a constant double team when healthy and is one of the only players that I&#8217;ve ever seen on a Cleveland defense where I think, &#8220;Wow, that guy is the best player on the field.&#8221; That really doesn&#8217;t happen a lot. The other occasion is when Braylon Edwards was on the team in 2007 and made a great catch against the Lions. Braylon isn&#8217;t that good in real life. It was as if somebody tweeked his stats like you could on Madden and played a full season like that. Anyways, Ndamukong Suh is pretty scary. He&#8217;s a big dude and he looks like he is going to make a lot of quarterback&#8217;s wives really nervous for the next decade. Remember in &#8220;Any Given Sunday&#8221; when Jack &#8216;Cap&#8217; Rooney got hurt and they were three quarterbacks deep when Willie Beamon came in? If some flashy-ass quarterback tried that nonsense against Suh, he&#8217;d do worse than [this][13].
  
</br>
  
**Linebackers: Brian Cushing, Jon Beason, and Pat Willis**
  
</br>
  
Brian Cushing is more of a joke pick really. The dude either took some [HGH][14] or whatever it is that he is accused of taking. Good going champ, sit out your games. Jon Beason is pretty good as well as Patrick Willis. They both stepped in right out of college and decided that they are going to the Pro-Bowl every year. Willis might be the scariest [dude][15] in the league. I would hate to return a punt against Patrick Willis. I would put Ray Lewis in here but he killed a guy.
  
</br>
  
**Cornerbacks: Antoine Winfield and Champ Bailey**
  
</br>
  
Obviously there are better corners in the league, that is just obvious. If I was making my list based on the best players, I think that half of my roster would be different. Antoine Winfield has been in the league forever and he is noted as the &#8220;best tackler at the corner position&#8221;. He seems to make all the necessary tackles and plays some good coverage. Champ Bailey has also been in the league for a long time and still shuts some people down. He used to be known as the fastest player in the league, but obviously age has caught up with him. I&#8217;d say he&#8217;s got to be one of the top 100 fastest people for his age in the world. He&#8217;s really good. His name is Champ.
  
</br>
  
**Safety: Adrian Wilson and Brian Dawkins**
  
</br>
  
[Adrian Wilson][16] can jump pretty high. Nobody doubts that. He&#8217;s also really good at playing defense. The Cardinals need him to continue to be good because they&#8217;ll be on defense a lot since they have a turnover machine at quarterback. Is it obvious that I don&#8217;t like Derek Anderson? The dude threw 24 interceptions in a season in college. Brian Dawkins is also pretty darn good at defense. He has huge [biceps][17]. If you are a woman, that is what you want to hold on to when you are in bed with your man.
  
</br>
  
I really don&#8217;t even want to get into kickers really. There is nothing 70s Big about them. I want a linebacker to come around that can also kick really well so he is the kicker and the starting linebacker so he could beat almost everybody up.
  
</br>
  
That concludes my All-70s Big team. I hope you had a wonderful time reading my posts and I hope you are looking forward to the season as much as I am. Check back in weekly for a recap of the most badassery things that happened during the week and we&#8217;ll name our 70s Big player of the week.
  
</br>
  
*Sometimes I think about this scenario when I am laying in bed trying to go to sleep. I think about what decade it would happen in and what players would be on that team in certain decades.
  
</br>
  
_About the author: My name is Nathan Lascek. I am quite the handful in the bed room, the weight room, the bath room, basically any sort of room. I enjoy the finer things in life like premium cable and premium sports. To say that I am a cocksman is an understatement._

 [1]: http://www.nfl.com/players/mikewilliams/profile?id=WIL447983
 [2]: http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_t6cM1t1uZIA/TDMVP8cIY5I/AAAAAAAACgw/vW6DhLlU-Ik/s1600/Purple+Drank+Gets+JaMarcus+Russell+in+Trouble.jpg
 [3]: http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=badassery
 [4]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dOu1dhzyYKw&feature=related
 [5]: http://www.iwantmedia.com/images/perezhilton.jpg
 [6]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=82pO-l4o5LQ&feature=related
 [7]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iq0RVYCHkr8
 [8]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gpWqMqrZwTU
 [9]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vl9NCWzqlsU
 [10]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oCVy8sVqBm4
 [11]: http://www.nologoneeded.com/.a/6a00e5538b9f7a88330120a78bc930970b-450wi
 [12]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UVqRq3wjtSo
 [13]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9E_2uC42jsA
 [14]: http://cakepoker.com/blog/En/image.axd?picture=2010%2F8%2Fbrian-cushing-before-and-after.jpg
 [15]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2ZiHzZgottA
 [16]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vL19q8yL54
 [17]: http://i2.cdn.turner.com/si/2009/football/nfl/02/27/signings/brian-dawkins.jpg