---
title: News
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2010-03-10T19:58:24+00:00
url: /blog/2010/03/news/
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
The late post is due to work being done on the site to prep it for some new features that will be revealed soon. As for today, we have business to tend to.

1. Thank you for all of the replies about the t-shirt help. I will be in contact with some of you within a day or two. We are finalizing two new t-shirt ideas, and a twist on the old one.

**
  
Update:**
  
2. Josh Wells and I are starting a new program at the [Wichita Falls Athletic Club][1] in which we will be offering weekend training packages. This will include 5 training sessions &#8212; two on Friday, two on Saturday, and one on Sunday morning. The first weekend we will be offering this is April 9th, 10th, and 11th. The price is set at $275 and will include ten hours of coached training by Josh and I as well as whatever lecture, observation, and experiences go along with hanging out at the WFAC for the weekend. You will see some of our own lifters training, you will undoubtedly interact with the infamous Rippetoe, and you will bathe in the glory that is Wichita Falls, Texas. **This training package is capped at 10 people, and we expect it to fill up fast, so if you are interested, [e-mail me][2] ASAP.** 
  

  
The emphasis of training will depend on the experience level of who is signed up, but we plan on going through all of the major barbell lifts: squat, press, deadlift, bench press, snatch, and clean and jerk. Assistance exercises such as the halting deadlift, rack pull, jerk lockouts, etc. may be included upon request or necessity. [E-mail][2] if you have any questions.

 [1]: http://wfac-gym.com
 [2]: mailto:Justin@70sbig.com
