---
title: Reader E-mail
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2010-09-23T02:31:02+00:00
url: /blog/2010/09/2885/
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
I got an e-mail from Aaron and the subject was, &#8220;I owe you an apology&#8221;. &#8216;Well, it&#8217;s about time,&#8221; I thought, not knowing what he was talking about. 

> I&#8217;ve read all of your posts about wearing a belt while training, and each time I&#8217;ve kinda rolled my eyes like a douche-nozzle and told myself that I don&#8217;t have any need for a belt.
  
> 
  
> However, this past Friday (deadlift Friday, a holy day of obligation for my friends and I) my friend asked if I wanted to try out a belt, for shits and giggles. I agreed because I saw no harm in using one. Sure enough, I take my 90&#8217;s small previous 1RM of 275 and pull it for an easy 5 reps. Despite being exhausted from my previous work sets, I knew that a jump to 300 was an absolute must. I strained for several seconds as my head filled with blood, but I got that son of a bitch off the floor and all the way up.
  
> 
  
> Despite the fact that the belt was way too big and I had no prior experience with a belt, I got a 25 lb PR. As much as I hate to admit wrongdoing, you are absolutely correct about weight belts and anyone who doesn&#8217;t use one is wrong.
  
> 
  
> It&#8217;s also worth mentioning that since I started reading your site I&#8217;ve gained 20 lbs, increased my PR&#8217;s on every lift, AND taken 1:30 off my Marine Corps PFT run time. Increased size and strength does not always mean a slower runner.
  
> 
  
> Respectfully,
  
> Aaron 

These are Aaron&#8217;s PFT improvements.
  
Crunches &#8212; 26 to 67
  
Pull-ups &#8212; 8 to 13
  
3 mile run &#8212; 22:30 to 21:00
  

  
Aaron also told me that his PFT score doesn&#8217;t do justice to his overall physical improvement, saying, &#8220;I also play club hockey for my University and my speed, endurance, and strength along the boards have all gone through the roof.&#8221; Nice job, Aaron.
  

  
How has strength benefited you lately?
  
&#8212;&#8212;&#8211;
  

  
Random video: The mother of all training montages.
  
<span class="embed-youtube" style="text-align:center; display: block;"><iframe class='youtube-player' type='text/html' width='584' height='329' src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/h0qVUn4797g?version=3&#038;rel=1&#038;fs=1&#038;autohide=2&#038;showsearch=0&#038;showinfo=1&#038;iv_load_policy=1&#038;wmode=transparent' allowfullscreen='true' style='border:0;'></iframe></span>
