---
title: News
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2011-07-31T03:18:26+00:00
url: /blog/2011/07/news-3/
categories:
  - Content

---
I finally got back to the states after a delay in Sydney (due to the whole airport having a power outage), arriving too late for the connecting flight innLAX, and not receiving all of my checked bags. If you ever travel to the other side of the world, I suggest staying at least 10 days. I had just gotten adapted to the time change and then left, so I&#8217;m gonna be fucked.
  

  
I have quite a bit of video from this trip and will trickle the videos out as I edit them (there&#8217;s one clip of me feeding/harassing wallabies that is ten minutes long all by itself). I still have some other vids from the Monterey trip to put up as well. If you don&#8217;t regularly follow the site and don&#8217;t care about my sweet vids, then you can a) bugger off or b) look forward to some training posts on topics like hip IR stretching, progressing the press, training fundamentals, how to &#8216;get women involved in lifting&#8217;, what to train when you&#8217;re &#8220;in doubt&#8221; or time cramped, a podcast interview with Brent, and more. If you have a particular topic you&#8217;d like my analysis or opinion on, then indicate it in the comments.
  

  
I&#8217;ll also be aiming to create a FAQ and change the theme of the site soon, so if you see something weird going on just ignore it unless it persists for several days (you can probably take penicillin for it if it does).
  

  
I&#8217;ll also be working on part II of the Texas Method e-book as well as shifting into some other writing projects.
  

  
Brian was doing some work on the site and we had some accidental video embed issues, so here are the three videos that were put up last week.
  
{{< youtube KYgSWsp_O64 >}}
  
[Intro][1]
  
[EDC][2]
  

  
That&#8217;s what&#8217;s going on.

 [1]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5fk8hVFdZ_A
 [2]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2FXQXln7Yy4
