---
title: Recap
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2011-03-07T16:47:11+00:00
url: /blog/2011/03/recap-3/
categories:
  - Content

---
It was a rough weekend for me given that the three days leading into the workshop I probably ate a combined 1,500 calories (Note: Don&#8217;t drink from the water fountain at the park). The 70&#8217;s Big Workshop itself was a lot of fun. The updated presentation had more of a focus on programming. I aimed to give everyone the conceptual understanding of programming with guidelines so that they can implement it.
  

  
I liked programming to mathematics; there are fundamental rules that create the boundaries for the language, yet once there is a solid understanding of those fundamentals, then you can get creative in how you apply the language to new things (I heard this explained by a quantum physicist on the radio when I was driving Friday &#8212; most of us won&#8217;t ever have the capacity to be creative with math, but my analogy still makes sense). We did discuss specific programs like various linear progressions and how to program intermediate level trainees, yet I&#8217;m more interested with someone understanding the guidelines of creating a stress dose to illicit a response, and knowing how it will effect the system and local structures.
  

  
In any case, hanging out with everyone was a lot of fun.
  

  
This past weekend also marked the 2011 Arnold Sports Festival, including a weightlifting and powerlifting meet. We&#8217;ll have recaps of that over the next few days. If you went to the festival or were watching online, then I&#8217;m interested in having you type out a recap post of what you saw. I already have someone doing the weightlifting meet, but shoot me a message or comment here if you want to help out. I drove to Atlanta Friday, did 12 hours of presenting, coaching, and eating food for the workshop on Saturday, then drove back to Florida on Sunday, so I didn&#8217;t see any of the Arnold.
