---
title: Chris Recap
author: IDontNeedASpot
type: page
date: 2011-04-20T15:40:36+00:00

---
_Recap written by Mike_
  

  
Chris was “not really impressed” with his performance at Raw Nationals in 2010, so his goal here was to set all new PRs, and set himself up for a great meet in August. I think he did the best that he possibly could, and at Nationals Chris will definitely do very well. Going into the meet Chris seemed surprisingly calm. I think he just saw this meet as a pit stop on his way to Nationals, and there was no way that he was not going to do well.

Chris, much like Alex, waited around all day to start lifting. By the time the lifting started in the afternoon, Chris has also restless, and tired from just sitting around. Thankfully, throughout the day he was able to eat, and he left a few times, that way it broke up the monotony quite well. When Chris finally started warming up to squat, he was ready to go. The first squat sets the tone for the rest of the meet, and Chris knew it had to be a joke. Unfortunately, due to how fast the second session was going, Chris squatted 545, 570, and 600 all in the span of five minutes.

When Chris was four out he took what I thought was his last warm-up. Then I realized he still needed to hit 570. Dammit. Chris hit 570lbs quickly, and almost as soon as he racked it they said “bar is loaded for Chris Riley.” He demolished his opener at 272.5K (600.7lbs), and we called for 282.5K (622.7lbs). The second attempt was easy, but not as easy as I had hoped. I knew he had squatted four times in 15 minutes, but I also knew he came for 292.5K (644.7lbs). Long story short, he destroyed it. He got a solid bounce out of the bottom, shoved his knees out (they come in sometimes, making some of his squats difficult), and he racked it. Three white lights. The tone of the meet was set, and it was on.

The bench is Chris’s least favorite lift, but he had gotten a lot stronger in the past year. He paused an easy 375lbs a few weeks out from this meet, and I was confident he would get 380lbs here. Unfortunately, the combination of a number of crappy conditions didn’t leave him primed for a PR. If Nationals is run this year half as well as it was last year, he’ll be good for nearly 400lbs, a big milestone. Chris had plenty of time to warm-up on the bench, and his opener was easy style. Chris opened at 155K (341.5lbs), smashed it, so we called for 165K (363.7lbs). Chris’s second attempt was just as fast as the first, and we went for the PR of 172.5K (380.2lbs). Needless to say I was surprised when the bar stalled halfway up, and just wouldn’t budge. Chris probably would’ve had 170K, but 172.K just wasn’t going. I knew he was disappointed, so I tried to get him pumped for the deadlift, because he came to conquer his demons, and pull 650lbs. Chris missed 650lbs at Nationals, and it wasn’t happening again.

Just like the bench, there was plenty of time for Chris to warm up his deadlift. By the time the bar was loaded for his opener, he walked up and pulled 252.K (556.5lbs) like it was 135lbs. We stuck with the plan and went for 277.5K (611.7lbs) on the second attempt. Looking at the video, it looked easy. When I watched it first hand, it seemed slower than I’ve seen Chris pull before. I wasn’t going to say that to him though, because I knew he needed all of us behind him for his third attempt. We stuck with the plan…300K (661.2lbs). When the bar was finally loaded, I was nervous as hell. Chris was getting amped listening to “Toxic” by A Static Lullaby, and he knew it was the lift that we all came for. This was going to make or break the meet for him. Despite hitting a huge meet PR on the Squat, and a meet PR on the bench, he needed to get this. When he walked up to the bar, I screamed one last “push the floor away” (which was the nail in the coffin for my voice), and he went after it. There was never any question that Chris had it. White lights. It was a good pick for a third attempt, but Chris had at least 670lbs in him that day. Nevertheless, we played it conservatively, and he hit some huge PRs. Ultimately his total was 757.5K (1670lbs), which was an 80lb meet PR. It was an awesome day for Chris, and gave him the opportunity to focus on getting ready for Raw Nationals in August.  
