---
title: 'Lifter Highlight: Andrei Belyaev'
author: brent kim
type: post
date: 2011-05-26T06:53:58+00:00
url: /blog/2011/05/belyaev/
categories:
  - Content

---
Hey guys, this is Honey Badger reporting.
  
</br>
  
I actually read about this on the highly esteemed [bodybuilding.com forums][1], but there is apparently a niche meet held in Russia in which lifters invited to the Super Cup of Titans compete for highest total **irregardless** of their weight class, so you have guys like Andrey Belyaev at 220 going up against Andrey Malanichev at 275.
  
</br>
  
The entire meet roster is full of badasses obviously. See Malanichev squatting 450kg/993lbs with a belt + knee wraps. Note that he misses it on his 2nd attempt and retakes it for a 3rd to get three white lights. lol?
  
{{< youtube wUUJcj7Ct5c >}}
  
</br>
  
Rules at Super Cup of Titans are the same as IPF, complete with walking the weight out of the rack and back in, stringent depth standards, and single-ply gear.
  
</br>
  
Before I go on, let me clarify that relative strength is irrelevant. A &#8220;double bodyweight squat&#8221; isn&#8217;t a big deal if you weigh 150lbs (or in my case, 164lbs &#8230;&#8230;&#8230;.), and comparing the fact that a lighter lifter lifts &#8220;relatively&#8221; more than a heavier lifter is fucking asinine and pathetic.
  
</br>
  
One of the standouts in this meet, however, would be 220lbs Andrey Belyaev, who placed 3rd in this meet despite being the lightest contender. See the results [here][2]. Let me point out that the difference between Belyaev and the typical bodyweight-multiple wannabe is that Belyaev totaled fucking 1100kg/2420lbs in single ply and is also an [insanely strong][3] raw lifter:

{{< youtube y86GiDSr3Tc >}}
  

   
Also, Belyaev may have been the lightest contender but at like 5&#8217;8&#8243;, 220lbs isn&#8217;t necessarily &#8220;small.&#8221; He&#8217;s fucking jacked like a motherfucker.
  
</br>
  
When it comes down to being reality, you don&#8217;t have to put the addendum, &#8220;and I only weigh xxxlbs&#8221; to your lifts if you are actually strong. If you are like Belyaev you can say &#8220;I deadlift 380kg/836lbs raw&#8221; and that&#8217;s the end of the discussion. Everyone nods their heads and says &#8220;yeah that&#8217;s pretty legit&#8221; and nobody has to add &#8220;&#8230; for your bodyweight&#8221; to make you feel better.
  
</br>
  
[A short interview with Belyaev, his coach, and his family][4].
  
</br>
  
Take away points relevant to us:
  
</br>
  
1.) Everybody can be strong in their own gym, **but result must be shown in competition**. Fuckin&#8217; A.
  
</br>
  
2.) No matter what place he takes at the tournament, **he will stand**. Who fucking gives a shit if he will be the lightest contender at a meet. Come at him, bro. Fuck excuses. If you go to a meet, go to fucking compete.
  
</br>
  
3.) He won a lot of titles in 2010 after leaving the IPF, **but results were too far from ideal**. Going to meets isn&#8217;t about placing when there are 3 lifters total in your weight class, and it&#8217;s not about being a big fish in a little pond. No one cares about a $5 medal you got because you just showed up. It&#8217;s about achieving the best competition results you&#8217;re capable of posting. Challenge yourself. Strive to get better. This is probably the most important thing you can do as an athlete. Titles, trophies, and medals couldn&#8217;t be more irrelevant.
  
</br>
  
**Belyaev&#8217;s lifts at Super Cup of Titans:** 

[spoiler]936lbs squat
  
{{< youtube qB95PBL0J_0 >}}
  


661lbs bench
  
{{< youtube Yiw6owh09kc >}}

826lbs deadlift
  
{{< youtube jxzHhCxs-4o >}}
  
[/spoiler]

 [1]: http://forum.bodybuilding.com/showthread.php?t=134752531
 [2]: http://titans2011.base4you-test.ru/
 [3]: http://www.youtube.com/embed/IZoTSkz39fM
 [4]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lg6uxSQbppk&feature=player_embedded#at=315