---
title: Courage
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2011-03-28T05:00:50+00:00
url: /blog/2011/03/courage/
categories:
  - Content

---
I want to share a video with all of you. It&#8217;s something that has really moved me. This video comes from the footage from _Restrepo_, the movie about the Second Platoon, B Company, 2nd Battalion, 503rd Infantry Regiment (airborne) of the 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team and their fifteen month deployment to the Korengal Valley in Afghanistan. It specifically focuses on Sal Giunta&#8217;s actions that earned him the Medal of Honor, the most prestigious American award to a member of the military.
  

  
Sal put his life on the line for his friends to earn the medal, yet he considers his actions average and equal to that of his entire platoon. The story itself is emotional, yet it&#8217;s his attitude that inspires me. In a world of narcissists, Sal is painfully humble. If you don&#8217;t watch the whole video, Sal is asked what went through his head when he was up for the Medal of Honor. His response begins at 11:48. Uncommon courage became a common occurrence for Sal and his friends.
  

  
I also want to draw your attention to Major Kearney (a Captain during the deployment) in this video. Major Kearney exhibits a tenacious, controlled rage towards his enemy. At 4:32 he says, &#8220;I made the decision, being the commander on the ground, that I wanted to go into Landigal and get our damn weapons back and show these people that we aren&#8217;t gonna give up&#8230;I don&#8217;t want them to have a war trophy&#8230;Hell no, I&#8217;m getting that stuff. It&#8217;s not theirs it&#8217;s mine.&#8221; Decisive. Tough. Determined. Major Kearney, Sal Giunta, and plenty other courageous military members are 70&#8217;s Big.
  

  
It&#8217;s almost embarrassing to sit here and compare these guys with 70sBig.com. Instead I want you to reflect on this video because you can learn just as much from these men as you can from Kazmaier, Pisarenko, and Konstantinovs. When you sit in the gym or at home and feel sorry for yourself, remember the story of Sal, and remember how Major Kearney never questioned his decision to kick ass. Remember these stories when you feel defeated, because you&#8217;re only defeated if you let yourself be.
  


<iframe title="YouTube video player" width="450" height="283" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/50RFJfUzNsY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
