---
title: Hey man, what’s your stack?
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=7676
categories:
  - Content
  - Nutrition

---
A long time ago there was a post asking what your stack was and talking about a few specific items. Dietary recommendations have evolved on this site to basically model a paleolithic diet. Eat lots of meat, potatoes, fat, and throw in some vegetables. This low-inflammatory diet aids in recovery, helps lower body fat, but provides a lot of nutrients that make the body more efficient. There may be derivatives of this approach depending on the person, their goal, and their situation, but it&#8217;s the best all around approach.

Keep in mind that supplements or vitamins (summed up as &#8220;micro-nutrients&#8221;) don&#8217;t really accomplish anything unless the quality of diet and macro-nutrients are under control. In other words, if you can&#8217;t even eat an adequate amount of protein, then you have no business worrying about whether you are a responder to creatine. Here are a few vitamins and supplements that should be taken care of before worrying about anything more complicated. Note that all of these are pretty cheap, too.

**Vitamin D**

Yes, we acquire this from the sun, but ancestral levels of this fat soluble vitamin are through the roof (it makes sense since we are indoors a lot more). Vit D is a prohormone, which means that it enhances the strength of an existing hormone (as opposed to adding a hormone). Vit D aids in fat metabolism, regulating immune response, insulin resistance, and is an anti-inflammatory. Basically it helps make the body more efficient.

Robb Wolf&#8217;s &#8220;The Paleo Solution&#8221; says that it&#8217;s reasonable to take in 2,000 to 5,000 IUs a day of Vitamin D in the form of gel cap. I personally take a gel cap that provides the 5,000 IU per day, and it was about $10 for a three month supply.

**Magnesium**

Most people, especially athletes, are deficient in magnesium. I&#8217;ve always thought of it as something that can augment testosterone levels, but it&#8217;s a necessary mineral that is used in heaps of enzymatic processes along with nerve transmission, muscle contraction, and energy production. For people with low bone density, magnesium is critically important because it helps calcium absorption. Wolf says that consumption can be up to 1.2 to 2g per day. I personally take 450mg (in the form of magnesium aspartate) with ZMA at night and then another 162mg of Natura Calm (in the form of magnesium citrate) in the morning &#8212; I&#8217;ll probably increase this amount a bit. If you don&#8217;t currently supplement magnesium, then start with low doses; too much at once will give you splattery diarrhea. Yeah.

**Zinc**

Just like magnesium, zinc is an important mineral. It is an anti-oxidant, helps with endocrine function, and has links with libido and hormone levels. Charles Poloquin talks about it frequently and is usually the number one vitamin deficiency to address. There are even some links with zinc inhibiting cortisol release, hence why ZMA is taken at night to improve sleeping (Briefly: Cortisol levels peak in the morning and are supposed to diminish throughout the day. High inflammation and emotional stress can keep cortisol elevated at night making it difficult to fall or stay asleep).

**Fish Oil**

You&#8217;ve all heard of fish oil and probably take it by now. It helps reduce inflammation, improves cardiovascular function, increases insulin sensitivity, as well as a host of other things. This is because it improves the Omega 3 fatty acid and Omega 6 fatty acid ratio. The 6 is associated with increased inflammation, hence why a low inflammatory diet is priority #1.

**Creatine**

&nbsp;
