---
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=6634
categories:
  - Content

---
You can&#8217;t save everyone. I wish we could, but a person must _want_ to be saved. The general population can be summed up in the following quote: 

> Out of every 100 men, ten shouldn’t even be there,
      
> Eighty are just targets,
      
> Nine are the real fighters, and we are lucky to have them, for they make the battle.
      
> Ah, but the one,
      
> One is a warrior,
      
> And he will bring the others back.
  
> 
      
> — Heraclitus 500 BC 

You can look at teams, organizations, or groups that have a common goal in a similar way. Whether it&#8217;s a high school football team, a unit in the military, or a creative corporate group, they are usually broken down like this:
  

  
-10 to 20% will bust their ass and do what they need to do to not only succeed, but excel
  
-50 to 60% will need inspiration, motivation, or a kick in the ass. The goal should be to convert them over to the &#8220;top level&#8221;.
  
-20 to 30% are total shit bags and should be weeded out ASAFP because they will only bring the team or group down.
  

  
The percentages can be moved around, but generally speaking, that&#8217;s how it is. That&#8217;s life; not every species or even individuals in a species can thrive and survive.
  

  
The other day, a friend of mine was shocked that co-workers ignored a grilled chicken salad and primarily ate pizza (bought by the company). I said, &#8220;You&#8217;re surprised that a bunch of unhealthy, slack-jaw, mouth breathers chose to eat pizza instead of salad?&#8221; Those types of people aren&#8217;t going to know better because they don&#8217;t _want_ to know any better. They don&#8217;t care to make the effort, so put effort into someone that does care.
  

  
This is why when I go to a new place, I don&#8217;t just go around correcting people&#8217;s technique and telling them how they should do things. I let them come to me when (or if) they are ready. Everyone can&#8217;t be &#8220;saved&#8221; because either a) they don&#8217;t want to be , b) they&#8217;re resistant to any change, or c) they are not willing to apply the effort to do so. That&#8217;s life.
  

  
I recently met a younger dude who is legitimate
