---
title: PR Friday – 18 Jan 2013
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2013-01-18T20:27:23+00:00
url: /blog/2013/01/pr-friday-18-jan-2013/
categories:
  - PR Friday

---
**PR Friday:&nbsp;**Post your training PR’s and updates to comments. This gives you chance to communicate with like-minded readers, get encouragement or tips, and to be a part of our community.

The whole gang (AC, Brent, Chris, Mike, and Shawn) surprised me by showing up to Utah last Saturday. I thought I was just picking Chris up from the airport. He got in the truck and rolled the window down and was looking around.

&#8220;What the hell are you doing?&#8221; I ask.
  
&#8220;Oh, I thought I saw something.&#8221;

I start driving away and a guy runs in front of my vehicle and I have to slam on the brakes to avoid hitting him. He looks up with a clown-like look of fear and I recognize AC&#8217;s face. He sprints around the truck and opens my door. We hug and he starts getting in, and I continually ask him, &#8220;Where&#8217;s your bag?&#8221; He avoids answering the question and we start driving away and then Mike suddenly appears and opens the other back door and climbs in, hitting his head in the process. As I get out of my door to greet him, I see Shawn standing there clapping his hands and laughing like a king witnessing a good jester show.

We put all of their bags in the back &#8212; which is now completely full &#8212; and all of them squeeze in the back seat of my 3rd generation 4runner. To emphasize this point, I&#8217;m the smallest guy at 212 pounds, and of the three guys in the back seat, AC is the smallest at 220ish. Shawn is in the 230s and Mike is in the 270s. Chris is in the front seat coming in over 300 pounds. And we still needed to get Brent an hour later&#8230;

Long story short, we had some adventures. We got down to <a href="https://www.facebook.com/XcelFitnessUT" target="_blank">Xcel Fitness</a> in Salt Lake City for a training session. Thanks to owner Nate and my friends Randi and Ryan for&nbsp;accommodating&nbsp;us (Zoe helped too). This is the first time that all of us have gotten to train together in a couple of years, and the first time that Shawn trained with all of us. The following is a long video that has all of the lifts we actually filmed in chronological order. Chris and Mike are benching and pressing, AC is squatting, Brent is snatching, I&#8217;m power cleaning and push-pressing, and Shawn is deadlifting. There are funny tidbits sprinkled throughout, but it&#8217;s not a collage video like AC makes (it would take me a year to do that).

{{< youtube htHHYrG0ziQ >}}

Also, who is gonna win the conference championships this weekend?
