---
title: PR Friday – 17 OCT 2014
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2014-10-17T04:00:55+00:00
url: /blog/2014/10/pr-friday-17-oct-2014/
categories:
  - PR Friday

---
<em style="color: #373737;"><strong>PR Friday</strong> — Post your training updates, PR’s, and questions to the comments for the <a href="/about/bios/" target="_blank">70′s Big crew</a>. </em>

<strong style="color: #373737;">Weekly Q&A </strong><span style="color: #373737;">gives you a chance to ask anyone from the 70′s Big Crew a question in the comments below, on <a href="https://www.facebook.com/70sBig" target="_blank">Facebook</a>, or <a href="https://twitter.com/70sBig" target="_blank">Twitter</a>. Follow 70&#8217;s Big on <a href="http://instagram.com/70s_Big" target="_blank">Instagram</a>. </span>

Earlier this week I wrote an article, &#8220;<a href="/blog/2014/10/on-drugs-and-supplements/" target="_blank">On Drugs and Supplements</a>&#8221; that explains a general philosophy where you focus on the fundamentals of health, nutrition, programming, or training before putting weird things in your body (phrasing).

**Consultations Are Back**

Many of you have asked, and you shall receive. The 70&#8217;s Big Team &#8212; consisting of Justin, AC, Mike, Chris, and Brent &#8212;  is now available to give programming consultations. All of us have an expertise in general strength and conditioning, but a few of us have experience with a given athletic endeavor. Everyone has competed in a national lifting event, some in international competition, everyone has handled lifters in numerous meets, and Justin, Chris, and AC all have coached in a collegiate S&C facility. Some specialties include:

**Justin** – military/SOF, CrossFit, mobility, collegiate sports, Olympic weightlifting
  
**Chris** – powerlifting, team sports (football, rugby, basketball, etc.)
  
**Brent** – Olympic weightlifting, mobility
  
**AC** – powerlifting, football (including professional players), collegiate sports
  
**Batt** – strongman, powerlifting

For more about us, see the Bios page. If you&#8217;re interested in a consultation, send an e-mail to <a style="color: #2d1a9e;" href="mailto:70sBigConsult@gmail.com" target="_blank">70sBigConsult@gmail.com</a><span style="color: #373737;"> and include the type of consultation you want, if you have a coach preference, and what your goal is.</span>

**Weekend Topic**

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">
  <p>
    Yesterday Eagle&#8217;s QB Nick Foles was asked what he learned about training in NFL. He said: the importance of getting 8+ hrs of sleep
  </p>
  
  <p>
    — 70&#8217;s Big (@70sBig) <a href="https://twitter.com/70sBig/status/522724261778427905">October 16, 2014</a>
  </p>
</blockquote>



Foles was asked that question on the Mike and Mike radio show on Wednesday morning, and I thought it was interesting.

What is the most important thing you&#8217;ve learned about training?
