---
title: PR Friday – 19 Sep 2014
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2014-09-19T04:00:13+00:00
url: /blog/2014/09/pr-friday-19-sep-2014/
categories:
  - PR Friday
  - Videos

---
<em style="color: #373737;"><strong>PR Friday</strong> — Post your training updates, PR’s, and questions to the comments and the <a href="/about/bios/" target="_blank">70′s Big crew</a> will respond. </em>

<strong style="color: #373737;">Weekly Q&A </strong><span style="color: #373737;">gives you a chance to ask anyone from the 70′s Big Crew a question in the comments below, on <a href="https://www.facebook.com/70sBig" target="_blank">Facebook</a>, or <a href="https://twitter.com/70sBig" target="_blank">Twitter</a>. Follow 70&#8217;s Big on <a href="http://instagram.com/70s_Big" target="_blank">Instagram</a>. </span>

**Recap: **Monday was the <a href="/blog/2014/09/chalk-talk-8/" target="_blank">8th Chalk Talk episode</a> about using speed deadlifts and RDLs in training, particularly during deployments, competitive seasons, or otherwise stressful training to still get decent posterior chain work in. <a href="/blog/2014/09/the-feast/" target="_blank">Learning how to feast</a> was the focal point of Wednesday, so don&#8217;t miss that article. I was away for a bit, so I couldn&#8217;t fix the broken podcast link from earlier in the month, but <a href="/blog/2014/09/70s-big-radio-episode-19/" target="_blank">Episode 19 of 70&#8217;s Big Radio</a> is now up. It features an interview with physical therapist Dr. Rob Andrade. Lastly, the <a href="/blog/2013/08/testosterone-and-pwo-nutrition/" target="_blank">throwback article</a> of the week is from a year ago and explains why your post workout meal doesn&#8217;t really mean much.

The following video details an Olympic weightlifting battle. Weightlifting is a bit friendlier to spectators because opposing lifters are usually following each other&#8217;s attempts. In contrast, powerlifting has the entire flight lift one attempt before continuing onto the next. The structure of powerlifting means you have to already know what&#8217;s going on to see the battles. The same goes for weightlifting, but it happens at a faster pace. This video clues you into the battle through narration:

{{< youtube VfpuHTKgllk >}}

**What is your favorite historic strength sport battle? If it&#8217;s on YouTube, go ahead and post a link. **
