---
title: On Motivation
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=10308
categories:
  - Content

---
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en">
  <p>
    Monday Inspiration: If you need to see or hear motivational quotes all the time, you&#8217;re not really motivated
  </p>
  
  <p>
    — 70&#8217;s Big (@70sBig) <a href="https://twitter.com/70sBig/statuses/501421986439254016">August 18, 2014</a>
  </p>
</blockquote>



Fitness is a spectacle to behold. It used to mean doing your ACSM protocol or hitting up a Gold&#8217;s gym five days a week (Monday was _always _bench day). Now it is married with the internet, a place where everyone has a podium that gives them the false impression that everyone gives a shit what they have to say. Some people worry about being slaves to their social media, others embrace it, and most people find some kind of in-between world where they talk to their friends via status updates.

But fitness met the internet at a hipster dive bar, said it liked the internet&#8217;s cool horn-rimmed glasses, and then had a sexual encounter without protection and figured, &#8220;We should get married!&#8221; It turns out fitness and the internet are second cousins, or something, so the result is a mutated formula-fed toddler who shouts, &#8220;LOOK AT ME!&#8221; while frolicking in Power Puff Girls spandex looking for the next cool catch phrase or feel-good movement to join.

This is what the Fitnenterness creature thrives on: being apart of a movement that makes them feel empowered, because it fills the otherwise mundane life of getting a morning croissant and reading the Huffington Post on public transit, wearing tennis shoes so those high heels don&#8217;t make sore feet.

Motivation is innate. It comes from within you, not obnoxious fucking catch phrases or rhymes. Not from colorful pictures or historical quotes. It exists because there is an undying drive for success. Successful people don&#8217;t waste their time with this crap because their busy being successful. Because they&#8217;re motivated.

&nbsp;
