---
title: 'Chalk Talk #7 – QLGM'
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2014-09-10T04:00:10+00:00
url: /blog/2014/09/chalk-talk-7/
categories:
  - 'Anatomy &amp; Physiology'
  - Content
  - Hips
  - Mobility
  - Recovery
  - Rehab
  - Videos

---
Low back pain? Sacro-iliac problems? Chances are you have jacked up muscles as opposed to disc or S/I joint issues. Enter QLGM into your vernacular, and it stands for <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadratus_lumborum_muscle" target="_blank">quadratus lumborum</a> and <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gluteus_medius_muscle" target="_blank">glute medius</a>. These are the muscles you should focus on if you have low back, sacral, and rear pelvic pain.

The quadratus lumborum (kwa-DRAY-tus lum-BOR-um) connects from the bottom rib and sides of the vertebrae (specifically the transverse processes) to the top of the pelvis on both sides. This muscles laterally flexes the trunk, but it mostly functions as a stabilizer and supports the entire upper body. Since it attaches on the rim of the pelvis, tension in the QL will pull up on the pelvis. The more tension there is on the pelvis or sacrum, the more pain there can be. The video shows how to do some soft tissue work on the QL to relieve tension.

The glute medius attaches from the outside rim of the pelvis to upper thigh bone (specifically the greater trochanter of the femur). When you take a step with your right foot, the left glute medius holds the pelvis in place by supporting the entire body weight. Because of the leverage, it handles a force around twice body weight, so it&#8217;s working really hard just when you&#8217;re walking. Things like walking with a load, running, or lifting can tighten it up&#8230;so everything we do. The video shows how to identify the GM as well as the glute minimus (which has similar function to the GM) and some soft tissue work you can do to address it.

{{< youtube m91gMKtkbNs >}}
