---
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=9928
categories:
  - Content

---
My wife was recently inundated with the &#8220;expertise&#8221; of a nutritionist. This nutritionist had her master&#8217;s in the field and was _certified_. She spoke longingly of how eating a minimum number of whole grains each day was important and that &#8220;most people not only get plenty of protein, but a lot of them get entirely too much&#8221;. Eat your carbs, don&#8217;t eat fat, limit your protein. Oh, for fuck&#8217;s sake. This is what we&#8217;re up against: conventional wisdom. I&#8217;m obviously biased because I have a book with &#8220;paleo&#8221; in the title (<a href="/books/pale-for-lifters/" target="_blank"><em>Paleo for Lifters</em></a>) that uses the Paleolithic Diet foundation for a simple &#8220;meat and potatoes&#8221; methodology that can be sustained for life. The aforementioned nutritionist placed the Paleo Diet in a class of &#8220;fad diets&#8221;, which doesn&#8217;t make a whole lot of sense since in the grand scheme of the human race grains would be considered a fad due to their relative shorter consumption, but I digress. <a href="http://www.bodybuilding.com/fun/strong-words-vol-2-6-paleo-titles-you-need-to-know.html" target="_blank">Nick Collias of BodyBuilding.com</a> described <a href="/books/pale-for-lifters/" target="_blank"><em>Paleo for Lifters</em></a> as &#8220;_Justin&#8217;s Personal Nutrition Philosophy&#8221;, _which is fine. I took a non-inflammatory diet with high quality food and applied it to a strength and power athlete population. Eating in this manner with a solid program results in lower body fat, better recovery, and better performance. Performance plus improved aesthetics means everyone is happy, and it only requires paying attention to how you fuel your body. It&#8217;s not terribly hard. But the conventional wisdom refuses to take this stuff seriously. Conventional wisdom is primarily concerned with sedentary people who eat like a dumpster behind Applebee&#8217;s. I&#8217;m concerned with people who give a shit about their training and lives &#8212; the one&#8217;s who actually care &#8212; and who understand basic physiology. Conventional wisdom is more concerned about regurgitation and not learning. Certifications in nutrition, personal training, and coaching mean <a href="http://youtu.be/W_FL9XOyDPs?t=16s" target="_blank">precisely dick</a>. It means they met the minimum requirements from an organization &#8212; which may or may not have affiliation with the state, which is a big can of dicks we won&#8217;t open today &#8212; and can implement their methodology or teaching. Usually this organization will throw around research to support their validity. After all, peer reviewed papers (from a bunch of old smart guys who base their livelihood on the accuracy of their hypothesis) result in fact right? If you walk in on a bunch of old, authoritative figures who want to mutilate the genitals of a 13 year old girl because she denied the rape of her 40 year old &#8220;husband&#8221;, does their authority validate them? What if they all agreed on the evidence? You can see how absurd this analogy is. Certifying bodies are more concerned with their continued existence and growth as opposed to the pursuit of knowledge. The performance &#8212; the part that actually matters &#8212; is lost in the shuffle. For example, stop and think about _why_ a nutritionist still preaches grain consumption and lack of protein despite research and practical evidence that suggests otherwise. Let&#8217;s ignore all of the research regarding grain consumption and digestive inflammation and let&#8217;s ignore the copious amounts of research linking protein consumption with hundreds of health improvements, namely decreases in body fat. Let&#8217;s ignore all of that and just focus on the evidence; it&#8217;s amazing that the conventional nutritionist still thinks that the &#8220;eat grains, low protein, and low fat&#8221; bullshit does anything at all. To see progress, you&#8217;d have to be working with people that are so unhealthy that moderate shifts in their diet away from six sodas a day and chips actually yield results. This goes back to the old adage, &#8220;Just because something works doesn&#8217;t mean it&#8217;s efficient.&#8221; There are a lot of ways to get a weak person strong. We could have them leg press ten sets of ten once a week and they&#8217;ll get stronger from what they were. But if we have them squat three sets of five, three times a week, we know they&#8217;ll get much stronger much faster with a systemic stress that will also have an effect on their health and appearance. I&#8217;m not saying that squatting is more effective than a certified nutritionist&#8217;s advice &#8212; though that is 1000% true &#8212; but I&#8217;m saying their shitty method must get some sort of progress to actually still be in practice. Yet, better methods exist. If an unhealthy person ate healthy meats, vegetables, some fruits, and healthy fats, their progress will be exponentially better than conventional nutritionist&#8217;s method. Why doesn&#8217;t the conventional nutritionist convert over? I don&#8217;t fucking know. Is she stupid? Is it because her organization tells her what to say and she obeys? Is she so ingrained in a methodology that she can&#8217;t comprehend something else working? The answer to all of these questions is that the conventional nutritionist lacks the ability to think. Thinking leads to questions. Questions leads to seeking answers. Seeking answers leads to testing something. Testing something leads to observations. Observations lead to understanding. Then the process repeats itself, yet only if a) the person can critically think and b) has the balls to do so. It&#8217;s not a coincidence that critical thinking is applying the scientific method. In peer reviewed research, the masses look at the established research and build on that. We bypass all of the in-fighting, back stabbing, qualifications, and Mickey Mouse bullshit in our online &#8220;strength and conditioning&#8221; and &#8220;nutrition&#8221; communities. The results we get practically will eventually spurn relevant research,
