---
title: 'Chalk Talk #9 – One Arm Farmer’s Walk'
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2014-10-22T04:00:38+00:00
url: /blog/2014/10/chalk-talk-9/
categories:
  - 'Anatomy &amp; Physiology'
  - Assistance
  - Mechanics/Technique
  - Recovery
  - Rehab
  - Training
  - Videos

---
Remember when we did <a href="/blog/2014/09/chalk-talk-7/" target="_blank">soft tissue work on the QL</a> to relieve tension on the pelvis and sacrum?&nbsp;Well, now we&#8217;re going to do an incredibly useful and necessary exercise to strengthen the quadratus lumborum, and it&#8217;s a one arm farmer&#8217;s walk. This is a must-do exercise for all populations as it can significantly improve back health and prevent injury.

Regular farmer&#8217;s walks are a simple two-handed carry exercise to work on grip strength and loading the entire body. The one arm variation will function differently. Whereas regular farmer&#8217;s are to be done heavy, the one arm sort should be light to moderate. The goal isn&#8217;t to move the most weight, the goal is to maintain a stable, neutral trunk position (with the chest up and lower abs contracted) without slouching the shoulders. Putting an emphasis on not leaning over in the trunk or hips forces the QL to maintain leverage of the trunk, hence our reason for executing this exercise.

{{< youtube unqraM9sSvk >}}

The first time I did this exercise, I just used a 24kg kettlebell (~53 pounds) and could not only feel my QL during the movement, but had a healthy soreness the next day or two. Strengthening the QL along with regular soft tissue work will likely reduce tweaks or strains and improve how your lower back, pelvis, and S/I area feel.

Throw these in at the end of your training session every week, but don&#8217;t do them if you&#8217;re gonna go heavy in the next session. You don&#8217;t want your stabilizing muscles to be sore or fatigued when trying to lift heavy. They would work well in the last session of the week with adequate rest after until you are accustomed to them. Remember, weight isn&#8217;t the key; good trunk position and QL activation is.
