---
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 1970-01-01T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=10600
categories:
  - Content

---
<p style="color: #373737;">
  For a while, I only had some cheap squat stands graciously given to me by a friend (thanks Ryan/Randi). These are fine for controlled back squats and front squats, but I wouldn’t trust it for very heavy weights that require a forceful re-rack. Plus, you can’t bench with most stands (I primarily pressed in addition to snatching/CJ).
</p>

<p style="color: #373737;">
  I have made a lot of platforms with plywood and horse stall mat. 4×8′ pieces of plywood, preferably 3/4″ thick (though I could only get 5/8″ the last time I did this). Put two side by side to make a 8×8′ square. Then put another two on top, but rotated 90 degrees so they overlap. Then, on the third layer I put a good 4×8′ piece of plywood in the middle, and then I put 2×8′ strips of horse stall mat on the outsides of it — the rubber mat is where the bumpers will make contact.<br /> I created platforms like this years ago when I opened a CrossFit and I’ve done it a few times for garages since, and I like it. You could just do a couple layers of plywood, but the horse stall mat will help absorb the force of dropping them. This is important to protect your garage’s foundation, and to possibly reduce the ground from shaking and irritating neighbors if you live close enough (this was the case in Florida years ago, but that ground was mostly sand and seemed to transmit the force easily).
</p>

<p style="color: #373737;">
  As far as a rack, I have a Rogue Monster Lite rack, and it is bolted to the garage floor, and I really like it. It’s solid, I could do kipping pull-ups on the accompanied pull-up bar if I wanted (I don’t), and I would trust it with very heavy loads. I made a smaller platform to go in the center of it, three layers thick (I just had the guys at Lowe’s cut it after I measured it — it worked out). However, a rack of this quality will be $700+, so it may be something you upgrade to.
</p>

<p style="color: #373737;">
  As far as a bar, I still recommend the Rogue B&R bar. It has the knurling marks for both a power and weightlifting bar, yet it is just a York Power Bar. It spins well enough for average Olympic weightlifters, so it’ll work well enough for those purposes. Personally, I have a second York Weightlifting Bar that I use for pulling. Each bar will be around $300, maybe less on Rogue’s site. Pendlay/MDUSA Bar equivalents are fine, I’m sure, I just got my weightlifting bar a long time ago.
</p>

<p style="color: #373737;">
  My bumpers are from York too, and are high quality, but are a bit thick. Get them from MDUSA or Rogue. I prefer them in kilos, especially for anybody competing in weightlifting or powerlifting since the competitions are in kilos and it’ll help you learn.
</p>

<p style="color: #373737;">
  I got a bench from Rogue. It is simple, solid, and effective.
</p>

<p style="color: #373737;">
  My change plates are from York, but they can be purchased from anywhere.
</p>

<p style="color: #373737;">
  I have good things to say about Rogue, their service, and their equipment. I ordered from them nearly 8 years ago when I opened a CrossFit and have filled my home gym with their stuff. I’ve used MDUSA equipment and have no complaints there. I’ve used better quality weightlifting equipment, but it’s not necessary for a home gym.
</p>

<p style="color: #373737;">
  I’ll turn this into a post on the site and probably take a video to elaborate better. Let me know if you have questions and I can address them in the post/vid.
</p>
