---
title: What is 70’s Big?
author: Justin Lascek
type: post
date: 2015-07-01T04:00:38+00:00
url: /blog/2015/07/what-is-70s-big/
categories:
  - Rant

---
Maybe you&#8217;vee heard of this website, maybe you haven&#8217;t. It&#8217;s been around for&nbsp;about six years and you may have seen various shenanigans or articles. I find it difficult to articulate what 70&#8217;s Big to a new person. It turns into, &#8220;Big like guys were in the &#8217;70s, except they were on a lot of D-bol&#8230;&#8221;

It sounds pretty silly, after all. If it&#8217;s not pornographic then what is it? The [About][1] section details the long standing mission statement: strength training as a means of performance development resulting in a&nbsp;robustly muscular physique. There&#8217;s a key secondary objective: to lift intensely and have a good fucking time doing it.

70&#8217;s Big is more about attitude than anything else. Goals will change. If you&#8217;re in that &#8220;consume and destroy&#8221; lifting stage, then you should eat the world. Maintain that for a few years and you&#8217;ll turn into a sloppy mess, and that&#8217;s just irresponsible. 70&#8217;s Big becomes an attitude and mantra for men and women who like to jack steel, get stronger, and overcome adversity. It&#8217;s about punching through fear and doing something different. It&#8217;s about setting the bar high, taking chances, and persevering through the shitty days, training sessions, or lifts to overcome it all and stand on top, victorious. Sure, it&#8217;s about the 405 squat, the 225 press, or the&nbsp;boulder shoulders, but it&#8217;s more so about the journey. Those defining moments of turmoil &#8212; and how we respond to them &#8212; make us who we are. And if you keep pushing with the undying intensity,&nbsp;_that,&nbsp;_my friends, is 70&#8217;s Big.

There was a guy on the Facebook Fan Page who asked, &#8220;Why don&#8217;t any of the people that run 70&#8217;s Big look &#8220;70&#8217;s Big&#8221;?&#8221; The answer is obvious: we&#8217;re all pussies! I only snatch 125k right now, and there are dudes at my body weight in this country snatching 160k and more. We&#8217;re not on steroids and we don&#8217;t lift as a profession. I put a premium on athleticism both out of necessity and because I prefer it. AC tries out new lifting sports, Mike works his ass off to become a pro strongman, Chris finds time to train&nbsp;while owning a gym and raising a kid, and Brent coaches, works, and eats a lot of Korean food. But we train hard, are stronger than an average lifter, and &#8212; most importantly &#8212; push hard and have a god damn good time.

There are a lot of things I aim to teach, but I hope everyone can walk away with the idea that attacking each day with the intensity of a max squat is the only way to live.

Here&#8217;s a really old video of all of us pussies living the 70&#8217;s Big life &#8212; the life worth living (various WFAC folk make an appearance):

{{< vimeo 8574697 >}}

[Texas Pt. 2][2] from [A.C.][3] on [Vimeo][4].

&nbsp;

And an [encore][5], if you&#8217;re into that kind of thing.

 [1]: /about/
 [2]: https://vimeo.com/8574697
 [3]: https://vimeo.com/user802431
 [4]: https://vimeo.com
 [5]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=htHHYrG0ziQ
